Take two minutes and
just get a taste of this.
And we have two frames that
have some names, 2 columns,
36 pixel margins, 16 pixel gutters, and
that ability to kind of like either
adding the padding with 1 row and
1 column or the other way where you
put a column in each side in top and
bottom to kinda get those in place.
And then we'll do that together and
then we'll look at how constraints and
layout grids play nicely with each other.
So our mission here is we had
two little kinda mini exercises.
So, 2 columns, 36 pixel margins,
16 pixel gutters.
So again,
that involves one grid in this case.
So we'll go ahead,
we'll add a layout grid, and
we will go ahead and switch that to
columns where we want two of them.
And in this case the margin is 36 and
the gutter is 16, right?
You'll notice that if you
switch this to it's offset and
not margin, but in stretch its margin.
So that will change depending on
the context in which you use it.
But generally speaking,
it's the word that makes more sense for
the context that you are in.
All right, that was easy.
So now we just want this
idea of 20 pixel padding.
Now you could theoretically use it,
just a regular grid, right?
So I could change that to 20 and
that will definitely
make it possible to do 20
pixel padding on this
div/frame/ what have you.
The other way to do it as we saw
before is if I only want that and
I don't want all those intermediary grid
squares, I can either make one row and
one column or
kind of do those different borders.
If I'm just trying to do the padding,
a lot of times I'll do the one row,
one column because it's half as much work,
right?
But if I need to do
stuff like the navbars,
that's when I'll do the kind of one
row on the bottom, one row on the top.
Let's go ahead and
we'll make this a row and in this case,
we want to 20 pixels padding.
So we take this down to one.
And then we can do 20 on both sides here.
And then I can go ahead and
add a second one.
Again, if you find yourself doing this
a lot, it makes sense to save them so
that you can go and just apply that again.
So we'll go ahead and we'll make
the column, make one column, 20, great.
And again, if you wanted to theoretically
make them visually different,
you can do that as well.
And also if you need to hide any of them
because you're like that's great for
laying something out, but
now I don't ever wanna see it again.
You can do that as well.
Thing that I didn't think
about until just now is day.
Let's see.
Well, they still snapper,
they're invisible,
I don't know the answer to that
question but let's find out together.
Now they're invisible, they don't do
anything, cool, but they are visible.
You can see that it
will now actually snap.
And it's easy to kind of like align
something with any of those grid lines, so
on and so forth, yes.
>> How do you save the grids?
>> Yeah, if you wanna save the grid so
let's say I love this grid, I wanna use it
forever and ever and ever, you go ahead,
you can do it as a save style.
So we can go ahead and we grab these,
we got to decide what the term of art
is gonna be for four little dots.
You can go ahead and
hit this plus sign, and
you can give it a name of
like 20 pixel padding.
And this is useful for just communicating
what the intended purposes,
but go ahead and
see everything in this case as well.
We'll create the style and now it's saved.
So if I go ahead make a new frame right
here and I go ahead, I wanna add a layout
grid and click this again and look,
there's my new 20 pixel padding grid.
And there it is, and
I can apply that to anything I want, and
I can never set that up again, right?
And again,
one thing we'll look at towards the end,
is how to publish your libraries and
styles.
So you can say you have one file that is
all of your kind of design system tokens
and stuff along those lines,
all the kind of foundational pieces, and
then share that with everyone
in the organization.
So then you can have multiple project
files for various different things,
that all have the same, this is the amount
of padding we use around this, so
on and so forth.
And that's especially powerful when we
get to components and variables and stuff
along those lines 'cause then you can
take, let's say you had 62 design files.
And you needed to change the border
radius on the primary button for
all of them, right?
Then you can do that in
the one source file.
And there's a bunch of mechanics for
people can opt in when they're ready for
those updates to happen,
so on and so forth.
But in a given file, as you start kind
of finding the pieces that you use for
lots of different things, for different
shadows, colors, stuff along those lines.
You can save them as styles and
apply them all over the place.